# 8.02 NumberGenericTableElements
We've taken a look at the initialization function and have a good idea of the base layout. Let's continue with what are probably the more simple functions to gather as much easy information as possible, then work on the more complicated functions. Let's start with `RtlNumberGenericTableElements`.

Think about how this function could work. One possible way is that the function will loop over the table. Another possibility is that the table contains an element that holds the number of elements in the table. Let's take a look.

Disassembly of `RtlNumberGenericTableElements`:
```asm
MOV EAX, DWORD PTR DS:[RCX + 0x24]
RET 
```

This function is very simple but also very helpful. It takes one parameter which is a generic table. The function returns whatever is at offset +0x24 in the table. One slight issue though, +0x24 isn't an offset of 8 bytes. This means that we may be wrong about each member being 8 bytes. It may also mean that only a portion of a member is being accessed. Maybe some of the bytes contain information and the other bytes contain some other information or data. 

Either way, based on the assembly we reversed, we can safely assume that its size is indeed 8 bytes and we didn't miss a member. Offset +0x24 is second half of the fifth member (0x20 is the fifth, +0x4 will be the second half). If we're wrong, I'm sure we'll find out very soon.

Let's update our predicted table layout:

```c
struct Table{
    QWORD Member1;
    QWORD_PTR Member2;
    QWORD_PTR Member3;
    QWORD_PTR Member4;
    ULONG NumOfElements;
    QWORD Member6;
    QWORD Member7;
    QWORD Member8;
    QWORD Member9;    
};
```

A ULONG (short for unsigned long) is 8 bytes.

[<- Previous Lesson](8.01%20InitializeTable.md)  
[Next Lesson ->](8.03%20IsGenericTableEmpty.md)

[Chapter Home](8.00%20GenericTable.md)  