# Programming Languages
There are many different programming languages including Python, Java, C, C++, C#, JavaScript, PHP, Lua, F#, Ruby, Go, Assembly, Fortran, COBOL, and many more. There are also variations of languages such as NodeJS and Ruby on Rails. Some languages are also higher levels than others. The higher the level the further it is from the hardware and typically the easier it is for humans. For example, C# is a very high level language and Assembly is a low level language. Between the two resides C/C++.

### Different Uses:
Different languages are used for different tasks and work differently. JavaScript is used in web applications, C/C++ is used for software, and Python is used for scripting. Of course, you can use these languages for different things as well. For example, you can use Python to build websites (what can't it be used for?).

### Execution Differences:
There are two main types of languages: **compiled** and **interpreted**.
* **Compiled languages** are compiled/translated directly into native machine code. This means that any computer that it was compiled for can directly run the program. The nice thing about compiled programs is that they, usually, don't need an extra program to run them. For instance, if you want to run a Java program you need to install the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) first. However, to run a C++ program you don't need anything like the JRE to do so. I want to reiterate that for the program to run, the code must be compiled into a language that machine understands. This is a good time to add that Linux is not bit compatible like Windows is. You can't run a 32 bit program on a 64 bit Linux like you can on Windows.
* **Interpreted languages** are "compiled" piece by piece as they are running. For example, when you run a Python program each line is essentially compiled then executed individually. The advantage to this is that the program doesn't need to be re-written or compiled for specific systems. The big down side to this is that they tend to be *significantly* slower than compiled languages.
* **Intermediate languages**. Wait, you said there were only two!? Well, some languages such as Java and .NET aren't so simple. Let's use Java as an example. A program written in Java is compiled into what's called Java bytecode, this is also the binary that will be distributed. To run the program the user will need to have Java, more specifically the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), installed. When the program is executed, the bytecode is interpreted by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). This sort of compilation and execution is done through what's called a Just-In-Time Compiler (JIT). These sort of languages have the advantage of being portable and, while not as fast as languages like C, they're faster than languages such as Python. You could think of them as hybrids between compiled and interpreted. The reason why they are called intermediate languages is because they are compiled into an intermediate language (such as Java bytecode).  
.NET is similar to Java. Quick note, .NET is compatible with many languages, but C# is *the* .NET language. .NET is compiled into Microsoft Intermediate Language (MSIL). This code is then ran by the .NET Framework. The big part of the .NET Framework is the Common Language Runtime (CLR). The CLR includes garbage collection, security things, and the JIT compiler.  
Almost forgot! Another huge advantage of these kinds of languages is security. Everything runs through some sort of VM which can do all kinds of security checks and management. Garbage collection is a huge advantage that deserves to be reiterated. Garbage collection makes the developers job easier as well as improving performance and memory usage (and security).