# Final Notes
I highly recommend taking an Assembly course before getting into reverse engineering. What I've covered will be enough to get you going and through this course, but that extra bit of knowledge can help you in areas that I don't cover. Learning Assembly will be especially helpful when you do work on your own. You don't need to be an expert in Assembly, but a good understanding will help. Also if you've come this far and you don't know C/C++ then please go learn it. Without the knowledge of either C or C++ this course can be difficult. It's best if you have experience in both. C is a pretty plain language so it wont take too long to learn. C++ is basically C just with more features.

If Assembly is confusing to you just remember it's a programming language that's supposed to be readable by both humans and a CPU. When you get the hang of Assembly the hard part is understanding optimized assembly which isn't always intuitive.

We've covered the foundational stuff so we will now be moving on to the actual reversing portion. It is at this point that I ask you to ask yourself, do you understand everything that we have covered so far? If not, please go back and try to understand whatever it is you don't. If you are struggling with a certain topic I would also recommend that you use resources outside of this course. Different point of views and explanations can often be all you need to make things click.

With all of this said, this is where the real fun begins. I wish you the best of luck on this journey. Oh, and if you haven't taken a break yet then go take one now.